PLAN(4)                                                                PLAN(4)



NAME
       ~/.dayplan - database file of plan(1)

SYNOPSIS
DESCRIPTION
       The ~/.dayplan file is read and written by the plan and pland programs.
       It can be edited manually, but it has not been designed for this.  Gen‐
       erally,  the format is annoyingly unmnemonic, and there is virtually no
       error checking. Use at your own risk. The only  reason  I  didn’t  make
       this a binary file is that I dislike binary config files as a matter of
       principle.

       The type of every line depends on the first character of the line.  The
       second  character is always a single TAB character. All following char‐
       acters are arguments. Comments and blank lines (which are ignored)  can
       appear  anywhere.  "Header  types" are all at the beginning of the file
       before the first "entry type".

       TYPES THAT CAN APPEAR ANYWHERE:

       #      Comment line. The rest of the line is ignored.


       HEADER TYPES:

       o      Options. The argument consists of 14  consecutive  flag  charac‐
              ters, and five numerical arguments.  In order, the flags are:

              s      sunday first

              a      12-hour (am/pm) mode

              m      US date format mm/dd/yy

              d      auto-delete past options

              j      show julian dates

              w      show week numbers

              n      show the next three notes, rather than the first three

              -      always  a  minus sign, not used (used to be warning popup
                     mode)

              w      show advance warnings graphically in week view

              u      show file names next to note strings in week view

              b      show appointments without time as full-width bar in  week
                     views

              -      if  "w",  the first week of the year is the one with full
                     seven days; if "t", the  first  Thursday  controls  which
                     week is the first; otherwise, any partial week is first

              c      use  group  color of other file appointments as the back‐
                     ground color for the text of these  appointments  in  the
                     day boxes in the month view

              o      turn  the  own-only flag in appointment entry menus on by
                     default,  and  only  show  appointments  from  the   main
                     ~/.dayplan file.

              After the flags, there is a sequence of integers:

              -      default early warning time in seconds

              -      default late warning time in seconds

              -      expiration  time  of notifier windows in seconds; 0 means
                     notifiers never expire

              -      beginning hour of week views, default is 8 (8:00 o’clock)

              -      ending hour of week views, default is 20 (20:00 o’clock)

              -      the  number  of  days  displayed  in  a week view, 1..28,
                     default is 7

       O      More options. The argument consists of 24 consecutive flag char‐
              acters,  most  of  which are unused and reserved for future use.
              ’-’ means an option is off, everything else means the option  is
              on. In order, the flags are:

              s      use the main window for all views

              a      resize windows if the contents change

       t      Time  adjustment  parameters  as  defined  with  the Adjust Time
              popup. The five numeric parameters are the offset to the  system
              clock  in  seconds, the timezone offset in seconds, the DST flag
              (0=always on, 1=always off, 2=automatic), and the  Julian  begin
              and end dates for automatic DST.

       e      Early warning flags,

       l      Late warning flags, and

       a      alarm flags:
              These three have the same format. The first three argument chars
              are flags, as specified in the Alarm Options  popup.  ’-’  means
              the flag is off, everything else means the flag is on. In order,
              the flags are:

              w      show a color-coded window when the warning/alarm triggers

              m      send mail when the warning/alarm triggers

              x      execute a command when the warning/alarm triggers

              The  flags  are followed by a single blank. The rest of the line
              is the command to execute when the  warning/alarm  triggers  and
              the ’x’ flag is on.

       y      Year  overview options. There are 10 consecutive flag characters
              and three numerical  arguments.   Only  one  flag  is  currently
              defined:

              s      show  single-day  appointments  too (those with a repeat-
                     every count of 1)

              -      nine unused flags that must be present, all ’-’

              After the flags, there is a sequence of integers:

              -      the number of months (zoom factor) that fills one screen‐
                     ful

              -      The display mode is 0 for the default files as defined in
                     the file list menu, 1 for all files, 2 for  own  appoint‐
                     ments  only,  and 2 for the file defined by the following
                     number.

              -      the number of the file whose appointments  are  displayed
                     if the previous number is 3.

       P      The  PostScript  printing options. Ten flag characters, followed
              by a blank and the print mode:

              a      omit all appointments from the printout

              p      omit all private appointments from the printout

              -      eight unused flags that must be present, all ’-’

              -      the mode: 0 for month, 1 for year, 2 for landscape  week,
                     and 3 for portrait week

       p      The  print spooling string. When printing a PostScript calendar,
              the PostScript code is sent to stdin of this command.

       m      The mailer program, as specified in the Alarm Options  menu.  Up
              to  one  "%s"  is  allowed,  it is replaced by the (quoted) note
              string.  "%s" is typically used for a subject.

       U      This code is obsolete since version 1.5.

       u      One file in the file list. There are five arguments  (the  order
              is  strange  because the month flag has been added later in ver‐
              sion 1.4):

              -      the file (login) name

              -      the file path

              -      0 if the file is shown in week views, 1 if  the  file  is
                     suspended

              -      the  color  used  in the week view, a number in the range
                     0..7

              -      0 if the file is shown in month views, 1 if the  file  is
                     suspended

              -      0  if  appointments  from this file are silent, 1 if they
                     can trigger their alarms


       ENTRY TYPES:

       [0-9]  Begins an entry. This is the only  mandatory  line,  all  others
              that  follow are optional. All following lines that do not begin
              with a numeric digit are extra information for the entry. Unlike
              all other types, there is no TAB character in the second column,
              the first character is the first digit of the trigger date.

              The line consists of five  date/time  fields,  seperated  by  at
              least one blank, and three flag characters that must be consecu‐
              tive. As usual, flags are off if the character is  ’-’,  and  on
              otherwise. The fields are:

              1/2/3    trigger   date,  month/day/year.  Year  can  be  either
                       70..99,00..38,   or   1970..2038.    Do    not    enter
                       appointments  after  2037. If there is demand, I’ll fix
                       this bug in about 50 years.

              1:2:3    trigger time, hour:minutes:seconds, in 24-hour  format.
                       99:99:99  means that there is no alarm time ("-" in the
                       time column).

              1:2:3    length, hour:minutes:seconds, in 24-hour format

              1:2:3    early-warning time,  hour:minutes:seconds,  in  24-hour
                       format, 0:0:0 means there is no early warning

              1:2:3    late-warning  time,  hour:minutes:seconds,  in  24-hour
                       format, 0:0:0 means there is no late warning

              S        suspended (the green button at the left edge is off)

              P        private (goes into the private dayplan  file  that  has
                       mode 0600)

              N        no  alarm  (trigger  warnings  if nonzero, but no final
                       alarm)

              M        do not show this appointment in the month view

              Y        do not show this appointment in the year view

              W        do not show this appointment in the week view

              O        do not show this appointment in the year overview

              D        do not show this appointment in the day view

              t        this is an active todo item, move to today  if  in  the
                       past

              -        one unused flag, always ’-’

              0        appointment text color in month calendar: 0 is default,
                       1..8 are colors

              0        show a warning this  many  days  in  advance:  0  means
                       never, 1 means one day ahead, etc.

       E      Add  an  exception date to the appointment. After the ’E’, a tab
              and a date m/d/y on which the appointment will not trigger  fol‐
              low. There can be up to four ’E’ lines for each appointment (see
              NEXC in conf.h).

       R      Add repetition information to the current entry. There are  five
              numeric  fields,  separated  by  at least one blank. This one is
              particularly unsuited for human consumption, sorry.

              1      trigger alarm every <1> days (in seconds)

              2      delete  alarm  after  this  date  (seconds  since  1/1/70
                     0:00:00)

              3      weekday bitmap and nth-week bitmap:
                     bit0=sunday ... bit6=saturday
                     bit8=first ... bit12=fifth, bit13=last

              4      month  day  bitmap,  bit0=last  day  of  the  month, bits
                     1..31=on that day of the month

              5      if 1, the entry repeats every year; if 0, it doesn’t.

       N      Add a note string to the current entry. All characters that fol‐
              low the TAB are part of the note string.

       M      Add  another line to the current entry’s message. All characters
              that follow the TAB are part of the line. There can be  multiple
              M lines, they all add to the message.

       S      Add  another  line to the current entry’s script. All characters
              that follow the TAB are part of the line. There can be  multiple
              S lines, they all add to the script.

       G      Reserved for group meetings, not currently used.



                                                                       PLAN(4)
